Chiara Altobelli
Homework 4 – Please, Sir, I Want Some More
CS 253
October 28, 2022

Purpose:
This program reads in category name and character combinations from the command line and creates a list of categories that the user can then test string input against. The string input is entered to the command line until the user exits via CTRL-D or enter. The program counts all matches between the string(s) entered and the characters in each category.

Rules:
Categories: The user can enter as many categories as they want via the command line when running the program. There are 3 built in categories entered in the main: Lower_Vowels, Lowercase_Consonants, and Letters. The user must enter a category name and a list of characters for each category. If too few arguments are entered (no categories added, characters entered without a category name, or a category name entered but no characters), the program will provide an error message and exit. If no arguments are entered, the program will provide an error message and exit.
Case Folding: The user can specify to include upper and lower case in a category by starting the character specification with ‘^’. If ‘^’ is not the first character in the category, the program will count it as a normal character and will not assume the user wants to include upper- and lower-case characters.
Ranges: If the user wants to include a range, such as A through Z or 0 through 9, they can use a ‘-‘ to indicate this: a-z, 0-9, etc. Multiple ranges can be entered and should be on one line, with no spaces or commas in the format of: ‘a-z0-9’. A user can combine case folding and ranges, but must indicate case folding first. For example: ‘^a-z’ will return the upper and lower case ranges for a-z. A user cannot use ‘-‘ as the first or last character if they wish to include a range in the category. When entered as the first or last character of a category, ‘-‘ will be counted as a character and will not indicate a range.

Makefiles:
The user can use “make” which calls GNUmakefile. 

Files:
This program includes the following files:
•	hw4: (this is the main), 
o	Initiates 3 built in categories of chrcatReps
o	Takes the categories entered via command line arguments and adds to chrcatReps
o	Allows the user to enter characters to the command line to compare to categories until they exit via CTRL-D or enter
o	Calls print function upon completion to print all categories and count information
o	Frees memory
•	Chrcats.c: 
o	This is where the bulk of the code is. This file takes input from the main, creates a chrcatRep struct and compares the user input to all of the categories, and counts up the matches.
•	ChrCat.h: 
o	This file is visible from hw4.c and chrcats.c and defines all extern methods
•	Utilities.c
o	This contains generic methods that can be reused for other programs, including:
	getInput (returns user entered input and length of the input entered)
	mallocError (provides error message if malloc fails)
	getLength (returns the length of a string)
	toLower (converts a character to lower case)
